>> Jen Kramer: So the next thing
we're gonna talk about, Grid area,
the Grid template areas and
the Grid area syntax.
Since I've got the document up, this is
actually a pretty easy way to explain it.
So far we have typically
used the Grid column and
the Grid row together in a single
declaration to declare where
we want to have a certain area
of our web page designated,
where that particular
grid item is going to be.
A different way that you can do
this is actually using real names.
So in this particular situation,
what we would do is we can have a series
of classes where we're gonna use
a property called grid area.
And you give it a name and I have given
these particular classes, grid class one,
two and three.
I gave them names like header article and
aside because presumably that's the
function that they serve in the document.
Obviously, you can call these
grid areas anything you want,
any name you happen to want.
So you can call them George,
Same and Mary if you prefer,
although those tend not
to be a self documenting.
And then down underneath here where
we have our wrapper which would be
our grid container we can
declare our columns, our rows.
And then we would declare
our grid template areas.
So if you look at this,
what I have here is two rows.
And the first row is,
header header header header.
In other words,
since I declared four columns here,
one fraction and three fractions wide.
What I do here is I say,
header header header header.
In other words, the header is gonna occupy
all four of those columns, make sense?
Okay, and
then underneath I'm gonna have an aside.
The dot is an indicator to
skip that particular cell,
to don't display anything there and
then have an article,
article.
>> Jen Kramer: So
in this particular situation those two
articles will wind up being a container
with that class too.
>> Jen Kramer: Makes sense?
Sort of?
Let's see it in action, okay.
So this is sort of an overview of
the syntax we're gonna talk about next,
this grid template areas.
So feel free to refer to that, you have
your cheat sheet in front of you people in
class or in the document online.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so
if we take a look at,
we're at chapter 12 here
in the documentation, in the files.
And in the begin folder we're
gonna open up grid area.css and
gridarea.html.
>> Jen Kramer: And
these next few chapters
are really short and very simple,
because I'm just demonstrating
different types of syntax here.
So this probably looks familiar to you,
we actually had this example earlier.
It changes around a little bit at the
various dimensions we saw that earlier.
So I've taken that same example here and
you see we have the same kind of HTML.
So we have a div with the class of
wrapper, we have a header, an article, and
then an aside.
And then on our CSS,
>> Jen Kramer: We
have some stuff already set up here.
So this is the original grid syntax
that I used on this particular example.
So we have our wrapper with our grid gap,
and
then we have our various dimensions
called out as grid columns and grid rows.
What we'd like to do now was rewrite
this using this grid area syntax.
So I'm gonna go ahead and
write these with you.
>> Jen Kramer: So
up here at the top with the wrappers where
we'll start which is our good container,
we're going to have the following.
So we're gonna have our
grid-template-columns,
and we're gonna have
our grid-template-rows.
And in fact, you can't,
of course call these out with however many
numbers you want and
whatever dimensions you wanna use.
You can also just say auto,
which is what I'm gonna do here.
So hey grid, you figure it out.
And then, here to our header,
our article and
are aside we're going to add
an additional property value pair.
So here under header,
we're going to add a grid area.
Anybody wanna come up with a name for
what we should call our grade
area?
>> Jen Kramer: How about header?
[LAUGH]
>> Jen Kramer: Not to confuse you,
of course.
Just because I am using
the header selector on line 12,
from the header HTML tag, does not mean
that I have to call the grid area, header,
I could call it George, if I wanted to.
But I'm gonna call it header,
because that's pretty self-documenting,
likewise, here for the article
I'm gonna give it a grid area of,
what should we call it?
>> Speaker 2: Article.
>> Jen Kramer: Article, okay.
And for the aside I'm gonna
give it a grid area of?
>> Speaker 2: Aside.
>> Jen Kramer: Aside, okay.
Actually I'll call this one sidebar,
just to throw you off.
Sidebar, because I can,
[COUGH] just to show you that you
can call them different things.
Okay, so
then to the wrapper up here on the top,
and where this is now working
at mobile dimensions, okay.
Because we're outside of all of the media
queries and we're building mobile first.
So this would be for
our mobile dimension to a wrapper class.
We're gonna add grid-template-areas,
and usually where I see
this written is as follows.
So you write out that property
grid-template-areas: then usually the way
I see this written is on the next line.
In quotes we have "header",
in quotes "article" and
in quotes "sidebar",
with the semi-colon at the end.
So this is telling grid that we're gonna
have, basically one row one column, right.
We're just gonna stack these things on
top of each other at mobile dimensions.
We're gonna have header, display first,
article, display second, side bar,
display last, makes sense?
Cool, so if that makes sense,
then let's go to our media queries.
So here in our media query for 650 pixels,
we can now erase all the stuff
that we put in here before, okay.
This is definitely calling out where
we want these grid cells to go.
But we're gonna call this out now with
different syntax so we can call this out
instead with the wrapper.
>> Jen Kramer: And
then we can say the following,
grid-template-columns and
grid-template-rows, okay.
So in this case as you saw it displayed
on the page, we had a skinny column and
we had a fat column, right.
So for our columns we have two of
those but, they're different sizes.
So I could call this 1fr and
3fr, make sense?
So one fraction and
three fractions just divide the page into
four parts make the right one the fat one.
Our grid template rows,
we can call this auto.
>> Jen Kramer: However many rows it takes,
right?
>> Jen Kramer: And
then we can try our grid-template-areas
becomes this.
>> Jen Kramer: Article
article article sidebar, right.
So that'll be row 1, we're gonna have
three fractions being the articles so
we repeat the word article three times.
Followed by the word sidebar to indicate
that that's our fourth fraction.
And then under that the header
occupies the whole thing,
"header header header header",
make sense?
>> Jen Kramer: Then put the semicolon on
the end.
>> Jen Kramer: All right,
so this is a totally different
way of writing exactly the same.
The outcome is exactly the same as what
we had before with the grid columns and
the grid rows and
all the different classes.
But this time we're doing this
using the grid area syntax.
And we're specifying grid template
columns, grid template rows, and
grid areas that go on the grid container.
What questions do you have at this
point before we go into the desktop?
>> Speaker 3: For the grid template rows.
>> Jen Kramer: Yes.
>> Speaker 3: Is auto the default,
so do you have to define that or can you
just leave it off and it would assume?
>> Jen Kramer: You could probably just
leave it off and it will be just fine.
Yeah, but for sake of completeness
here I've left it on with auto.
Other questions at this point in time?
>> Speaker 4: What
are the limitations of
the names of grid areas,
can I use hyphens or underscores?
>> Jen Kramer: So far as I am aware,
you can use whatever is legal in CSS
is legal here for grid area names.